MM-28649 Add Mobile E2E documentation (#682)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/mobile/e2e/android.md

---
title: "Setup and Run Android E2E"
date: 2020-09-01T09:00:00-00:00

> weight: 4

Reviewer: Please fix weight depending on how to arrange the order of subtopics. I'd suggest
```suggestion
weight: 3
```

subsection: Mobile End-to-End Testing
---

#### Local setup
1. Install latest SDK
```
sdkmanager "system-images;android-30;google_apis;x86"
sdkmanager --licenses
```

> 2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder

Reviewer: Please explain more about the `detox_emu_api_30`. Maybe,
```suggestion
2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps on creating in automatically.
```

> 2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps on creating in automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create the emulator by running `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` in `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps to create this automatically.
```

> 2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps on creating in automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps create it automatically.
```

> 2. Create the emulator by `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` at `/detox` folder. Android test requires emulator with the name of `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps on creating in automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create the emulator using `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` from within the `/detox` folder. Android testing requires an emulator named `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps to create it automatically.
```

> 2. Create the emulator using `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` from within the `/detox` folder. Android testing requires an emulator named `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps to create it automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create the emulator using `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` from the `/detox` folder. Android testing requires an emulator named `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps to create it automatically.
```

> #### Test run on debug mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Test run in debug mode
```

> This is the typical flow for local development and test writing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the typical flow for local development and test writing:
```

> 1. On first terminal, `make run-android` at the root folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal window and run `make run-android` from the root folder.
```

> 2. On second terminal,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Open a second terminal window and run:
```

>   - `npm i`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Run `npm i` from within the `root` folder.
```
1. Please confirm where `npm i` is run from.
2. Do the following two steps happen in the same terminal window, after running npm i?

> 2. Open a second terminal window and run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open a second terminal window and:
```

> 2. Open a second terminal window and run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Open a second terminal window and:
```

>   - Run `npm i` from within the `root` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Run `npm i` from the `root` folder.
```

>   - Build the app together with the androidTest by `npm run e2e:android-build` at `/detox` folder

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Build the app together with the androidTest using `npm run e2e:android-build` from within the `/detox` folder.
```

>   - Run the test by `npm run e2e:android-test` at `/detox` folder

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Run the test using `npm run e2e:android-test` from within the `/detox` folder.
```

Reviewer 3: Do the following two steps happen in the same terminal window, after running `npm i`?

>   - Build the app together with the androidTest using `npm run e2e:android-build` from within the `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Build the app together with the androidTest using `npm run e2e:android-build` from the `/detox` folder.
```

> #### Test run on release mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Test run in release mode
```

>   - Run the test using `npm run e2e:android-test` from within the `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Run the test using `npm run e2e:android-test` from the `/detox` folder.
```

This is the typical flow for CI test run.

> 1. Build release app by `npm run e2e:android-build-release` at the `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Build a release app by running `npm run e2e:android-build-release` from within the `/detox` folder.
```

> This is the typical flow for CI test run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the typical flow for CI test run:
```

> 2. Run test by `npm run e2e:android-test-release` at `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Run a test using `npm run e2e:android-test-release` from within the `/detox` folder.
```

> 1. Build a release app by running `npm run e2e:android-build-release` from within the `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Build a release app by running `npm run e2e:android-build-release` from the `/detox` folder.
```

> 2. Run a test using `npm run e2e:android-test-release` from within the `/detox` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Run a test using `npm run e2e:android-test-release` from the `/detox` folder.
```

---
title: "Setup and Run Android E2E"
date: 2020-09-01T09:00:00-00:00
weight: 3
subsection: Mobile End-to-End Testing
---

#### Local setup

> 1. Install the latest SDK.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Install the latest Android SDK.
```

Reviewer: Done.

```
sdkmanager "system-images;android-30;google_apis;x86"
sdkmanager --licenses
```
2. Create the emulator using `npm run e2e:android-create-emulator` from the `/detox` folder. Android testing requires an emulator named `detox_emu_api_30` and the script helps to create it automatically.

#### Test run in debug mode

This is the typical flow for local development and test writing:

> 1. Open a terminal window and run `make run-android` from the root folder.

Reviewer 4: is it required to build and run the app first? if so, why? I think this step is not required at all.

Reviewer: Ah, right. This works too but actually the minimum requirement is to start react-native packager.  I'll change this with `make start`.

Reviewer 4: Please use `npm start` instead.. I’m going to get rid of the **make** commands

Reviewer: Done.

2. Open a second terminal window and:

>   - Run `npm i` from the root folder.

Reviewer 4: this should be the first step.

Reviewer: Oh, good catch! It's a typo. Should be at `/detox` (not root) folder.

Reviewer: Done.
